He will crush your head."
That was Jehovah speaking to the serpent, really, to Satan.
And God-faring people who have understood the prophecy at Genesis 315 have been hanging
on to those words for a long time, because we long to see the complete elimination of
Satan and his influence from our lives.
Can we fully imagine what life will be like once Satan and the demons are out of the picture?
How much influence do they have on us and are thinking right now?
If you open Watchtower Library and go to the Watchtower Publications Index 1986-2016,
under the subject Satan you will find a subheading entitled, Methods of Operation on Humans.
It lists 56 devices that he uses to trip us up mentally, emotionally, morally, and spiritually.
Like you see things in the list that you have had to contend with or are contending with
even now, discouragement, entertainment, family opposition, intimidation, personal differences,
ridicule, temptations.
With each of these, the index provides references to our publications where we can find helpful
encouragement and scriptural principles to deal with whatever is threatening us.
Well, let's talk about two of Satan's methods that were in the list, starting with one
that was near the top of the list, convincing people of being unloved or worthless.
The devil would have us believe that from God's standpoint, we are unlovable and unforgivable.
He wants us to worry about our past mistakes, become overly self-critical, and underestimate
Jehovah's compassion and forgiveness.
But Satan is just taking the spotlight off himself because he is the one who is unlovable
in God's size and who is really unforgivable.
Now, how do we combat this method of Satan's to dishearten us?
Well, one thing is we can remember it is impossible for God to lie, so take to heart what
Jehovah has written truthfully in the Bible about his love for us.
As an example, please turn to Romans chapter 8 and keep your Bibles open there, if you
will.
It's Romans chapter 8.
We're going to read verses 33 and 34.
Who will file accusation against God's chosen ones?
God is the one who declares them righteous?
Who will condemn them?
Christ Jesus is the one who died.
Yes, more than that, the one who was raised up, who was at the right hand of God and who
also pleads for us.
Now those words were addressed to spirits andointed Christians, but in principle they apply
also to those of the other sheep who are declared righteous as God's friends.
So do Satan's false accusations really matter?
No.
It is Jehovah who declares true Christians righteous based on their faith in the sacrifice of Christ.
And really, why would Jehovah stop loving his worshipers after he has given them the
most precious gift he possibly could, his own beloved son who even now pleads for us
with God?
Let's keep reading in Romans 8, continuing with verses 38 and 39.
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor governments, nor things
now here, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creation,
will be able to separate us from God's love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
No one, including Satan, can successfully challenge God's favorable judgment of his devoted
servants.
Now, a second thing we can do to combat this method of the devil's to dishearten us is
to remember.
Satan is a malicious liar.
The truth is not in him.
So we have to reject his lying accusations.
A reference listed in the index tells of how a traveling overseer addresses this issue.
He asks downhearted ones, do you believe in the Trinity?
And the discouraged one would say, of course not, realizing that's one of Satan's lies.
Then the brother would ask, do you believe in Hellfire?
Again comes the answer, of course not.
So the brother tells them there's another satanic lie that usually not recognized as such,
the lie that Jehovah does not love us as individuals.
And that approach often gets positive results in helping the person to recognize and reject
Satan's lie that we are unloved or worthless in God's eyes.
So we need to take Jehovah at his word.
He is the one who tells the truth, and he wants us to believe that he loves us individually.
Another method that was in that list, in the index, that Satan uses to deceive people
is propaganda.
That is false, biased, or deceptive information used to manipulate the way we think.
The first reference shown in the index for propaganda is an article in the watchtower
that we are currently studying, an article entitled, Winning the Battle for Your Mind.
And it begins, you are under attack, and your chief enemy Satan is using a very dangerous
weapon against you.
What is it?
Propaganda, a weapon specially designed to attack, not your body, but your mind.
Satan can use any part of his wicked system of things to disseminate his lies, and his
objective is to weaken our faith and morals, disturb our contentions between us, and to
undermine our confidence in the leadership that God is providing us.
How can we resist?
The article says, Jesus gave this simple rule for combating propaganda.
Know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
In the Bible, we can find all we need to combat Satan's propaganda, provided we are diligent
in carefully examining the scriptures daily, and we use our God-given abilities and
power of reason to make the truth our own.
Now, the second thing we can do to combat this method of the devil is to keep in mind
that Satan does not want us to think clearly, or reason things out well.
So never be content passively to blindly accept what you hear from politicians, the
news media, the internet, because Satan is the master of fake news.
And the article concludes, have you ever watched a film in which, from your vantage point
in the audience, you can clearly see that someone is being deceived and manipulated?
Did you find yourself thinking, don't believe it, they're lying to you?
Imagine then the angel shouting the same message to you, don't be fooled by Satan's lies.
Try your ears then to Satan's propaganda, listen to Jehovah, and trust in him.
Now all Satanic influence will be gone when Satan is bound and hurled into the abyss
for a thousand years, and what a relief it will be to live in a world totally free from
his wicked influence.
But then he'll be released from the abyss for a short while for a final test.
What method will he use then to deceive us?
One of the 56 devices we saw earlier in the list, or some new diabolical trick that
he has thought of.
Well, we don't know.
But we do know that if we remember, he is the liar, and Jehovah is the truth teller,
we should fair just fine.
Let's go back to Paul's letter to the Romans, where he echoes the first Bible prophecy
in Romans chapter 16 and verse 20, Romans 16, 20.
For his part, the God who gives peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly.
Rather than being merely abyss, Satan will actually be completely annihilated.
The Revelation Climax book says this is more than a superficial bruising.
Paul here used a Greek word that means to bruise into a jelly-like state, to trample
down, to destroy utterly by crushing.
And the God's love book says, with Satan out of the way, you will feel relief that may
be hard to fathom now.
Meanwhile, whenever wrong or negative thoughts creep into our mind, we need to reject Satan's
lies and focus our mind on the truths that Jehovah has taught us.